hello everybody hello Michael hey there we really should have kicked off the shift to Monday next
week instead of this week because this week's a holiday we're on Tuesday but it was a leap Monday
yeah or the reverse of that or something yes okay so next week we'll be on Monday
but it's good to be here how should we kick it off let's kick it off all right
hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to earbuds this
is episode 399 recorded September 3rd 2024 and I am Brian Okken and I'm Michael Kennedy
I always have to check the date because I write down in the notes what the what the date is but
sometimes I start the notes a day early and I get the day wrong but yeah it is September 3rd anyway
thanks everybody for joining thank you everybody that has supported our work that this episode is
sponsored by us so please check out our courses and and also thank you to patreon supporters for helping
them if you'd like to connect with us you can always connect on Mastodon the links are in the
show notes and we also you can join us live if you check out pythonbytes.fm/live you can see when we are next it's usually
upcoming going to be
on Mondays at 10 a.m. and
finally if you'd like to join the friends of the show list or what that is the email list so that you get mostly you'll get the show notes with all the links to everything we talk about in your inbox which is a good thing so send that up but let's get on with the show Michael what would you like to start with?
Michael Leach: I would like to talk about virtual environments how about that yeah actually this is a really fun topic this comes from Hynek he wrote yesterday an article I feel like this is one of the things you write where it's like all right I'll write it down
Michael Leach: you keep asking me I'll write it down so we can just have it there to point at and the article is entitled why I still use Python virtual environments in Docker I was checking out this thing that Hynek wrote about using UV and its project management features inside of Docker containers and there's a bunch of funkiness if you look at his article he links over to a GitHub post GitHub issue I guess and
Michael Leach: and there it's you know we've got Hynek jumping in you've got Sebastian from FastAPI jumping in you know I'd like a bunch of pretty significant folks going almost a little more help for us Docker people so as I've talked about for Python bytes and all the talk Python things and other infrastructures running in Docker these days it's glorious
Michael Leach: we've got we've got one big server with eight CPUs and 17 different multi tier apps running on it's fantastic and I happen to use this as well and I just thought it was really interesting to hear Hynek's recommendations and mostly on on the wise okay because with Docker the Python in the Docker container is really only going to be used for
Michael Leach: the particular app that's being shipped like usually put just one thing into a Docker container one app and if you need two apps you often run to Docker containers so why why not just blast on the built in Python or something along those lines right.
Michael Leach: Yeah you're not trying to isolate from anything.
Michael Leach: So yeah exactly.
Michael Leach: Well.
Michael Leach: I can just hear Hynek now going yes but let me write this down.
Michael Leach: So I let's flip over to Omnivore app because that's what you should be using if you do long form reading and note taking Omnivore is that and this is great for for notes.
Michael Leach: This is why I still use this right like what's going on here says.
Michael Leach: As an overarching theme.
Michael Leach: My goal Hynek's is not mindlessly follow some best practices that add complexity for questionable payoffs because a big tech developer advocates.
Michael Leach: So at a conference but to spend a lot of time thinking about what secondary effects things that you do and it's not so much about how many keys you got to press but how hard is it to reason about what's going to happen as a consequence of a particular setup you know.
Michael Leach: Okay.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: So that's fair.
Michael Leach: And basically this is look people understand virtual environments really really well.
Michael Leach: It's the whole goal of virtual environments is to hold a single application.
Michael Leach: If I tell you in documentation or a meeting or a talk or a course or whatever.
Michael Leach: Hey, what we're deploying is a virtual environment like ah, I know what that is.
Michael Leach: That's pretty straightforward.
Michael Leach: And this is Hynek's words.
Michael Leach: It's the closest thing that we have to an enclosed standardized and well understood application build artifact in Python.
Michael Leach: The stretch he says, but he thinks of virtual environments as the result of linking.
Michael Leach: A dynamic binary in compiled languages, which is pretty interesting.
Michael Leach: Hmm.
Michael Leach: Kind of.
Michael Leach: Yeah, I can see the analogy.
Michael Leach: Yeah, exactly.
Michael Leach: I do too.
Totally.
Michael Leach: So you've got your Python source code, you've got your list of dependencies.
That's kind of like your statically linked libraries in your in your compiler.
And then what you get out is the actual libraries, not a list of names, and your code potentially
Michael Leach: PYC files precompiled, etc.
And so on.
Michael Leach: So I think that makes a ton of sense.
Michael Leach: It certainly seems that way to me.
Michael Leach: And it's good to use the same tools and primitives that you have in development
and in production.
So they're not vastly different.
And in development, you typically use virtual environments.
So why not in production?
Right?
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: Moreover, import complexity debugging says, did you know this?
Michael Leach: You maybe know this.
I didn't know this, actually.
Michael Leach: If you pass dash capital I to Python, then it limits where the imports come
from, and will only import from either the standard library, or the virtual environment,
and nothing else, as opposed to say falling back to, well, it's not the virtual environment.
Michael Leach: So it's in the Python path or so it's in the --user version or whatever.
Right?
Michael Leach: Hmm.
Michael Leach: So that's kind of nice.
Michael Leach: And then finally, as a bonus says, I'll have no fury like how I feel about
pip install --user.
Michael Leach: So, you know, anyway, it's, it's an interesting thing.
Michael Leach: You can check this out and I follow the same philosophy, but I didn't in
my mind have it as crystallized as what Henning did.
So I really liked this, this take on it.
And people who get this podcast, visit the website or even just get the MP3.
Michael Leach: All that is happening through a virtual environment running Python 312 in
a Docker container.
How about that?
That's pretty cool.
Michael Leach: It is pretty cool.
Michael Leach: It is.
It is.
Michael Leach: But I'm not trying to convince you to do anything.
Michael Leach: Kind of is.
Michael Leach: But, but don't tell me that I'm wrong.
Michael Leach: Yeah, sure.
Okay.
Michael Leach: You think it's the vibes there.
Michael Leach: Anyway, well done.
Michael Leach: Okay.
Michael Leach: People can check that out.
Michael Leach: Nice.
Michael Leach: I want to talk about the developer survey.
Michael Leach: So, I clicked on the wrong thing.
Michael Leach: Today.
Michael Leach: Yes, I did.
Michael Leach: I have to share.
Michael Leach: So sorry for the delay.
Michael Leach: I have to share a different screen present.
Michael Leach: I should have done this beforehand.
Michael Leach: We'll cut this out.
Michael Leach: Stop.
Michael Leach: Sure screen.
Michael Leach: Sorry, everybody window.
Michael Leach: There we go.
Michael Leach: Anyway, now with my topic.
Michael Leach: So I would like to talk about the Python developer survey results.
Michael Leach: This is done by the PSF and JetBrains.
Michael Leach: And this is still not on the screen.
Michael Leach: Ah, there we go.
Michael Leach: There you go.
Michael Leach: The developer survey.
Michael Leach: With the it's funny developer s is on the next line.
Michael Leach: That's funny.
Michael Leach: Anyway, 2023 it's 2024 what's going on?
Michael Leach: Well, they they do this kind of at the end.
Michael Leach: It's from November of 2023 to February 2024 is when they're collecting it.
Michael Leach: So and then they analyze it and come up with this cool thing.
Michael Leach: And so that's why we get it a few months later, which now we're ready.
Michael Leach: So anyway, let's let's look at some of the cool results.
Michael Leach: So this is pretty neat.
Michael Leach: They've got the contents broken out into all sorts of stuff.
Michael Leach: Python versions data science, a lot of data science stuff in here now.
Michael Leach: But there's a bunch of stuff I thought was interesting.
Michael Leach: We've got 85% of the survey respondents use Python as their main language
versus secondary.
Michael Leach: Hey, Brian, before we go on, I've not seen this at all.
Michael Leach: I didn't even know they were out.
Michael Leach: So really, whatever I say is first reaction.
Michael Leach: I'm loving it.
Michael Leach: I'm getting to experience it this way.
Michael Leach: Cool.
Michael Leach: And well, did you did you submit the survey?
Michael Leach: Yeah, I filled it out.
Michael Leach: Okay.
Michael Leach: Long time ago.
Michael Leach: I believe those numbers, the 85% main 15% secondary is identical to last year.
Michael Leach: I can't remember.
Michael Leach: Okay.
Michael Leach: Sure, but yeah, very, very close.
Michael Leach: It's interesting.
Michael Leach: I can't, a lot of these, a lot of the results, they show what the last year's
Michael Leach: But some of them they don't, they're just highlighted.
Michael Leach: So maybe if you can probably get the data or something.
Michael Leach: Anyway, the the Python usage with other languages.
Michael Leach: I thought it was interesting that the the JavaScript and HTML is down a little
Michael Leach: bit, just a little bit.
Michael Leach: It was 37% JavaScript's 37% in 2022 and this times 35.
Michael Leach: HTML was 36 now 32.
Michael Leach: So it's gone down a little bit.
Michael Leach: Right interesting.
Michael Leach: You wonder if is that an actual decrease in use of HTML and JavaScript?
Michael Leach: Are there more people coming into Python like on the data science side that don't care
Michael Leach: about HTML and CSS and JavaScript, you know, maybe they just maybe it's being diluted,
Michael Leach: but not lessened or maybe it is less.
Michael Leach: I don't know.
Michael Leach: Yeah, I don't think it's lessened.
Michael Leach: I think just more people are using Python and Paul Everett notes that the the drop in HTML
Michael Leach: and JavaScript might be might show that data science is increasing its share of Python.
Michael Leach: And I think that's true.
Michael Leach: The machine learning and data science is taking.
Michael Leach: There's more more people coming into that than other than web development, I guess.
Michael Leach: So I think that's there.
Michael Leach: The rust was interesting because we talk about Python and rust a lot.
Michael Leach: And still it's in its increased, but it's still 7% of the of this respondents are using rust also.
Michael Leach: So so but those 7% are doing some cool stuff.
Michael Leach: So so go rust.
Michael Leach: Anyway, usage with other languages primary versus secondary.
Michael Leach: Yeah, it's no surprises JavaScript HTML SQL bash C++ down at the bottom.
Michael Leach: Let's see.
Michael Leach: Skip down a little bit.
Michael Leach: How long this is interesting when when especially when for people like you and me that train other people and teach other people stuff is to remember that.
Michael Leach: A lot of people have only been using Python for a little while there's there's 25% less than a year.
Michael Leach: But if you combine the less than a year and one to two years, it's like, you know, it's like 40% have been using it less than two years.
Michael Leach: So you really can't assume that people know a lot of the Python history and stuff like that.
Michael Leach: So the other thing that was interesting is absolutely new to coding, even if it's not Python, that's similar.
Michael Leach: It's like 50% of the populations under two years, so or at least with of the survey respondents, but I would have expected the the survey respondents to be more edge towards experience folks myself, but exactly yeah.
Michael Leach: 37% Python developers reported contributing to open source.
Michael Leach: That's awesome in the last year.
Michael Leach: That's actually higher than I would have expected, but that might be again the population of survey respondents, but yeah interesting.
Michael Leach: Most contributions are in code 77% 38 documentation only 33 10 tests that's a bummer we got to bring the tests up a bit.
Michael Leach: third, I don't know what this is 34% of Python developers report practicing collaborative development.
Michael Leach: Is that like pair programming and stuff like that?
Michael Leach: Maybe.
Michael Leach: let's see.
Michael Leach: Oh, look at this.
Michael Leach: Favorite Python related resources.
Michael Leach: I think this is new this year.
Michael Leach: I've got YouTube channels, podcasts, blogs, of the podcast.
Michael Leach: We've got talk Python to me.
Michael Leach: Congrats.
Michael Leach: It's not ordered.
Michael Leach: It's just the top, I guess, but I think it might be ordered.
Michael Leach: Talk Python to me.
Michael Leach: Lex Friedman.
Michael Leach: It's a good, good one.
Michael Leach: Real Python people.
Michael Leach: Django chat.
Michael Leach: I love those guys.
Michael Leach: Core.py.
Michael Leach: Python bytes.
Michael Leach: And then Python test.
Michael Leach: I was, I was not expecting to have that show up.
Michael Leach: That's awesome.
Michael Leach: That is awesome.
Michael Leach: We've got three podcasts in that list.
Michael Leach: That's a, that's incredible.
Michael Leach: But I probably, I, I, I changed just this last weekend, I changed Python test back to testing code.
Michael Leach: Just right click on the page, Brian, and say edit is inspect and then edit HTML and it'd be fine.
Michael Leach: Yeah, well.
Michael Leach: I don't know how to save it after that, but it'll look fine for a little while.
Michael Leach: Well, yeah.
Michael Leach: Yeah, so if you click on it, it goes to Python test and you can click on testing code at that point.
Michael Leach: So let's just, I guess I'll leave it at that.
Michael Leach: I'm not changing it again.
Michael Leach: It's sticking to testing code for a while.
Michael Leach: Anyway.
Michael Leach: Okay.
Michael Leach: Do you use it for work or fun 51% use it for both work and personal.
Michael Leach: So that's fun.
Michael Leach: Only 21% for just for work with just a cool because I Python is so fun.
Michael Leach: You should do it at home also, I guess.
Michael Leach: Yeah, once you learn programming, you see the problems at home.
Michael Leach: You're like, that has to be fixed.
Michael Leach: There will be some code written that will fix this problem, whatever it is.
Michael Leach: Yeah, yeah.
Michael Leach: They added no, what you, what you use Python for.
Michael Leach: They've added some categories.
Michael Leach: So some of the, it's hard to compare the numbers year over year because there's
new categories.
Michael Leach: Like for instance, data analysis is still at the top at 44%, but it was 51 last year.
Michael Leach: But there's also data engineering and academic research and ML ops added and they're
Michael Leach: And data visualization.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: So, and oh yeah, design data visualization.
Michael Leach: Those are all it's, it's like tons of it.
Michael Leach: That's what's people are using Python for.
Michael Leach: So we could rename the podcast the the the language that uses that people use data
Michael Leach: Data analysis for podcast or something.
Michael Leach: I don't know.
Michael Leach: Anyway.
Michael Leach: where's testing?
Michael Leach: I think testing.
Michael Leach: Oh, testing is gone down to 23%.
Michael Leach: It's probably we have so many users now we don't need to test as much.
Michael Leach: They can do it.
Michael Leach: I think it's the data analysis people.
Michael Leach: I don't think they just yeah.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: Well, when you're exploring data, you don't need to write tests.
Michael Leach: It's not you're not going to keep it throw it away anyway.
Michael Leach: Yeah, your data doesn't have to actually be right.
Michael Leach: It could it could be wrong.
Michael Leach: you're just like making decisions for the country based on it.
Michael Leach: But you know, whatever.
Michael Leach: okay.
Michael Leach: Anyway, a whole bunch of fun stuff through here.
Michael Leach: oh, there's a whole bunch of stuff around dot, doc, data analysis stuff
Michael Leach: That I didn't really dig into, but I did think that the type Python version
Michael Leach: Was interesting.
Michael Leach: there's still Python to people around there's 6% of the people using Python
to just I don't know why.
Michael Leach: But anyway, two will not die.
Michael Leach: the and I think that's pretty much it's got we went down 1% over last year
Michael Leach: So that I guess we're making progress that long tail will take a while.
Michael Leach: of the other versions of the Python 3 looks like 310 311 312 were the tops.
Michael Leach: which is what you'd expect, I guess.
Michael Leach: So.
Michael Leach: It's good 75 almost 75% use the last last three versions.
Michael Leach: So this is great.
Michael Leach: and Python door dot orgs.
Michael Leach: So most reasons most most used way to install.
Michael Leach: So next year we'll see about UV Python install.
Michael Leach: That's another one.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: That's because they had some others, right?
Michael Leach: Yeah, I might have the up to add that.
Michael Leach: I think that we'll probably see that with, that was like virtual environment
stuff somewhere.
Michael Leach: Can we look at web frameworks real quick?
Michael Leach: I know you just scroll by them.
Michael Leach: Just scroll by them.
Michael Leach: Web frameworks, Flask, Django requests, FastAPI.
Michael Leach: I still don't know how these fit together.
Michael Leach: It's like, what language do you see plus plus or CSS?
Michael Leach: Yeah, I don't know.
Michael Leach: I don't know the question.
Michael Leach: So I'm gonna say that because we have flask and Django.
Michael Leach: We also have HTTPX, which is a client on it.
Michael Leach: It's like, yes, Firefox or flask.
Michael Leach: It's like, huh?
Michael Leach: Interesting.
Michael Leach: Anyway, it's like requests, requests as well.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: I think it's in a web category, but they feel convoluted.
Michael Leach: But nonetheless, flask, Django and FastAPI, I think it is super interesting.
Michael Leach: I think flask is gaining a lot of momentum for a second wind or fifth wind
Michael Leach: or however many winds it's had plus one.
Michael Leach: It seems like it's getting a lot of momentum these days, because I feel like
Michael Leach: it had fallen a little bit, certainly relative to FastAPI.
Michael Leach: So that's interesting.
Michael Leach: Well, David Lord's been doing a bunch of cool work on it and other people
Michael Leach: cleaning up and absolutely getting rid of some of the old stuff.
Michael Leach: So I had him on talk Python to talk about the state of flask and pallets in 2024.
Michael Leach: Maybe that's where I got my information from.
Michael Leach: I just listened to that like last week.
Michael Leach: Did you?
Michael Leach: Oh, nice.
Michael Leach: Good episode.
Michael Leach: Test frameworks, py tests at the top 52%.
Michael Leach: Yay.
Michael Leach: Built in default still carries a lot of weight there, though.
Michael Leach: Unit test.
Michael Leach: Yeah, 25%.
Michael Leach: 2% for nose.
Michael Leach: Yeah, that must be well those Python to people using nose still maybe I don't
know.
Michael Leach: Same same with this like hypothesis that's and mock those can be used with any
of these things.
Michael Leach: But yeah.
Michael Leach: Yeah, exactly.
Michael Leach: And I would like to see the numbers from last year.
Michael Leach: I can't remember.
Michael Leach: I'll look those up.
Michael Leach: I'm hoping that okay is in the list.
Michael Leach: We haven't talked about that, but we'll try to get okay at 2% but in a couple
of years.
Michael Leach: Yeah, more more fun stuff for data analysis, whatever date lots of data science
half of its data science.
Michael Leach: But anyway, fun survey.
Michael Leach: It's good to check out.
Michael Leach: And especially look around November then.
Michael Leach: We'll bug you in a couple months to go take the survey for next time.
Michael Leach: Yep.
Michael Leach: I always really look forward to this.
Michael Leach: It's insightful.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: All right.
Michael Leach: Well, previously, Brian, remember you talked, you had an article that you covered
that was like Python for Excel was not what I wanted it to be or something like that,
right?
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: Like I wanted a replacement for VBA and what I got was advanced functions
in cells or I don't know, one of them times of things.
Michael Leach: And one of the limitations, several of the limitations were somewhat annoying.
Michael Leach: One limitation was, well, you can pip install or you can import third party
things from this shorthand list of a couple of them that are common like NumPy and Pandas
that might make sense.
Michael Leach: And if it's not there, then c'est la vie.
Michael Leach: So it goes.
Michael Leach: The other one was that in order to run your code,
Michael Leach: You do your Excel things, your Excel had to go and upload and actually execute
your data and code in Microsoft Azure somewhere in a container somehow.
Michael Leach: There may be privacy concerns, but even just from a, I'm on an airplane or
I'm in a place that has crappy internet or I'm at a coffee shop and don't have good internet,
Michael Leach: but I still would like to do some work.
Michael Leach: I just, any disconnected scenario whatsoever was not ideal.
Michael Leach: So the Anaconda folks who were providing some of the foundation for that through
Michael Leach: Anaconda, the distributable Python environment for that, they came out with this thing called
Michael Leach: The Anaconda code add in for Excel, which solves some of these problems.
Michael Leach: It's pretty cool.
Michael Leach: So what's, I guess for some people, the main takeaway might be that you can run it locally,
Michael Leach: which is pretty awesome.
Michael Leach: But I think what's more interesting is that this is based on PyScript.
Michael Leach: Remember PyScript, the WASM version of Python on the front end?
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: And I imagine it must be based on the Pyodide, not the micro Python version,
which would make it pretty robust in terms of what it can do.
Michael Leach: But what's really cool about that is you can run it locally.
Michael Leach: Without any setup or install.
Michael Leach: So you don't even have to have Python locally because it just grabs a WASM thing off the internet
Michael Leach: or ships with it, probably ships with it.
Michael Leach: And that's pretty cool.
Michael Leach: It also says it will run cells independently.
Michael Leach: So in addition to running Python cells in row major order, which is kind of tricky,
Michael Leach: meaning any cells with Python code will rerun anytime any Python cells change.
Michael Leach: It can also run them independently.
Michael Leach: So cells containing Python are only rerun if the cells cells modify that's kind of interesting.
Michael Leach: But this is the most interesting, a customizable environment.
Michael Leach: It allows you to basically pick any package from PyPI that can execute on WASM.
Michael Leach: So there's certain limitations there, right?
Michael Leach: Like if it's based on binaries that are not available or something that can't work.
Michael Leach: But that's a much bigger thing than the four or five packages that came with Microsoft Python for Excel or whatever the official name of that is.
Michael Leach: Right?
Michael Leach: So this is really, really cool.
Michael Leach: On top of that, there's a init.py that fires up whenever you opened up the Microsoft Excel Python variant.
Michael Leach: With this one, that thing static is just whatever it is, it is.
Michael Leach: But with this one, you can edit it.
Michael Leach: So for example, if you have functions that you often call and you want to be able just to quick have them and not retype them into every Excel sheet or whatever, you can write little utility functions and other helper things and import libraries, you know, import whatever library as alias.
Michael Leach: And then you just have those automatically available.
Michael Leach: So it kind of sets up your spreadsheet for easy use.
Michael Leach: So you can do really advanced things.
Michael Leach: That's pretty cool.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: So that's really cool.
Michael Leach: You can write your own little packages too.
Michael Leach: Exactly.
Michael Leach: Like your little, like you could create little helper functions and other types of things and not have to do them in the little editor window of Excel.
Michael Leach: Also supports better data types for working with NumPy and yeah, I think that's about it.
Michael Leach: But if you were thinking this was pretty close, but it's not quite, you know, this might actually push it a little bit farther.
Michael Leach: Runs locally based on PyScript.
Michael Leach: Install your own libraries long as they run on PyScript.
Michael Leach: And honestly, this might even push PyScript to be better, right?
Michael Leach: Getting some people to adapt libraries where they're like, why would I do that before?
Michael Leach: Like, oh, now it works in Excel.
Michael Leach: Okay, I'll do that.
Michael Leach: Now that seems like a big enough reason to work on compatibility with WASM.
Michael Leach: Yeah.
Michael Leach: With both of these solutions though, the things that I know you probably don't have the answer, but when sharing a spreadsheet with somebody else, do you have to have like a save or share requirements file or something like that?
Michael Leach: Sort of.
Michael Leach: So it does say this here.
Michael Leach: It does say once an environment is created, this list of PyPI WASM libraries, like a requirements file, it will be pinned.
Michael Leach: So when users share notebooks, the spreadsheet will retain the exact environment for all of the users.
Michael Leach: Oh, okay.
Michael Leach: So I'm imagining if you've got the add in installed and it sees the workbook or whatever it's called.
called it's probably got a list of some sort of startup code like based on this version of
py script and python and then here's the list of dependencies and it probably just grabs it
from the internet like a browser would and then goes yeah but i also don't know what happens if
you share one of these with two people yeah yeah yeah cool awesome well that's uh i think that's
it for our main items isn't it um i got one more yes you do keep going
um and we were talking about david lord and flask already but um now i want to talk about a blog post
he has so david lord depends he he keeps up a lot of stuff and he released a uh article called
disabling scheduled dependency updates and i yes please i kind of see that with uh with uh with
python bytes because you you have a like what depend a bot turned on and stuff i thought i
turned it off but it won't go off it's driving me nuts so um the what and david's even had so he's
looked into he's got um like 20 active projects that he is even though they're low activity projects
there's 20 projects that he's um keeping an eye on and um and there's within those a lot of them are
like libraries so you're not you're not really you think you you don't have to update the dependencies
for applications with their requirements.txt file you totally do you have to keep those up but for projects
for like libraries we usually keep those open we don't pin dependencies but we do pin development
environment and ci environment and all that stuff and that's a lot of what he's talking about so the
the environments or what he calls the ecosystems are like the requirements file for develop development
environment he keeps those up with pip compile and then you've got pre-commit hooks because you're
testing a lot of stuff and those hooks might update so you have different hook versions and then you also
have github actions with within ci workflows so there's there's things like checkout and and the
other there's lots of lots of things you can do with github actions those may have been updated how do
you keep track of those so he potentially has three commits uh time any but times 20 applications um
going on because of these these uh dependent bots and things and that's um and that's uh it it could be more
if you didn't uh pull this down but he set everything up to only notify him once a month for these things
but still even only once a month that's like 60 emails at once a month and uh having to deal with that
so um for a lot of these projects what he's done is he's went down to doing it locally the idea is then
um you've got you use talks or something yeah he's using talks with uh with some labels to do some
stuff so locally he will run pip compile um to to to do a new development environment and then um also
github actions and there wasn't a local version available so he wrote gha update which um which is a new
a little github action updater uh that you can go out and look to see if there's any any updates to
your github actions so very cool thanks for that um and then also pre-commit um doing an auto update for
everything so yes this is a like you might be a risk to like just update everything on a project but
that when should you do this is for development environment so instead of having
and this is the idea around it also if you've got a project that isn't doing a lot of development it'll
look like there's a lot of development going on with the github history and it's just these dependency
updates instead or you look at the prs and i'll save 500 closed prs but there's only one real pr yeah but
then there's also like it's mind shift to the the shifting you're shifting how things work and
remembering you know what your test situation is and everything for these projects is jumping around
so instead it's when like on a day when he's looking at something he'll go oh these haven't been updated
for a while i'll go um i'll go update while i'm working on it i'll update all of these things and then
he can do that as one of the one of the commits on a day that he's working on it anyway so they
so the activity looks is closer to when he's actually working on something um and i you know of course like
we're talking about this is more important if you're it's less important for development environment
fixes because that users don't aren't affected by it for libraries if you have runtime dependencies you
really should be checking that more than once a month but for uh for for development environment
stuff i think this is cool so i'm gonna take a look at this as well i love it i'm gonna make another
effort to disable more depend about stuff because it's so so wordy there's uh an issue somewhere on
github i can't remember on where you go and complain about nevada offer feedback and learnings i believe
there was one about could we please have a digest instead of a separate email and a separate pr they're
like no why would you want that because i like i'm not quite as bad off as david because a lot of my
projects and repos i'm like no i'm not turning depend about on at all but it's the important ones i did and
i woke up this morning to probably 40 40 prs you know what just tell me i could get some updates for
this thing i'm not going to do them one at a time i'm not going to say oh you know what let me
reschedule this week and we're going to go through one at a time and we're going to see how they work
right it's it's not yeah you know mission or not not flight control software for a spaceship it's like
it's a website if it doesn't work i'll roll it back and i know what i'm using this stuff for like
if if uh some of these things update if i got six updates i'll update them all if all the tests pass
i'll look at it and it's fine if if all if i've got good coverage and i'm really testing the heck out of
something it should be fine if it breaks then i might you know take go roll look at that more closely but
it's only usually going to be one dependency that's mucking me up it's not going to be yeah
breaking it's exceedingly rare that a change in a dependency will cause cause a break because you're
only using a little bit of the app usually the last time that i got one was mongo engine updated and it
wasn't dealing with multi-threading correctly and even their testing didn't catch it because
it only appeared when you're doing like production web servers like granian or micro wizz or something
and then processing multi multiple requests in a threaded scenario so even doing like web test stuff on it
it didn't surface those errors you know so it's just like well you know what we're gonna roll that
one back and wait till they fix it then roll it back you know two two one step back two steps forward
and we'll be fine and so the way i were i really usually get hit with um with uh deprecations so i'll
run i'll run the test with uh with all warrant like deprecation warnings turned all all the way up
um so that um so i can see those and then you can have the have the decision of should i should i deal
with that deprecation right now or should i i can schedule it then uh turn that off and schedule the
deprecation notice it's not that it's broken it's just it's not going to run like this forever
uh i might want to use the new interface or something like that yeah well david i feel your
pain and thanks for writing the article yeah all right now we're done with our main topics yes now
indeed we are um and i don't have any extra other than the note that i have decided to switch um so
okay i'll just go ahead and do this right now uh since i already got my screen up testing code i already
have it uh testing code.com i had it up there we go okay episode 221 was in june
and it was a two-parter it's part one of a two-part two-part episode two episode series i don't know why
i just dropped the ball and didn't do part two so uh this week i'm planning on releasing part two so that
people can if they want to catch up but it's now a testing code yeah that's my gonna close that loop
excellent all right well i got a couple some highs and lows if you will brian and all in between
okay check this is exciting check this uh this merged pr for unidep so unidep manages dependencies
across conda and pip managed environments it's super cool we talked about in episode 366.
okay we also talked about uh just path which added a badge you know python bytes 377.
oh cool pretty cool right remember we talked about that yeah well this pr adds the badge so if you go
over to unidep you can see it's got pi pi version pi test passing code coverage number stars and python bytes 366
so we have a another badge signing i would point this out mostly to just say hey people if we talk about your
stuff and you want to link back to the episode this badge is a cool way to do it okay and where where again
do people get the code for the badge they can just uh well actually you can look at that pr and it'll
show you if you go to files changed it's just this link this image shields badge python bytes the number
the color yeah and then put in the link to where it goes to cool even even links to the time when their
topic was discussed so it's pretty cool neat so i would i would say base it on the unidep and pr and
just grab it from there or just grab the code from the the readme cool cool all right uh
we'll do this one next started using a c called raindrop.io i talked about omnivore have we talked
about before but it's like reminded people like you should be using omnivore it's awesome but yeah you
should you should be using it brian you should but if you if you had something like delicious you remember
delicious yeah or those things things where you would save links and parts saver and i don't i mean i
don't hardly ever use my bookmarks in my browser because they're so they're so poorly poor to get
to and stuff uh the only reason i make a bookmark is maybe so autocomplete for my browser address bar
might pull something from there you know but i started using this thing called raindrop which gives you
a whole bunch more options and it's kind of like a more modern delicious and from what i can tell
it's got pretty strong privacy for example i think when you install it as a browser plugin which you
don't have to even but if you did it doesn't ask ask for access to the page content unless you enable
certain features like it will completely download the page and save a history for you in case the page
changes or goes away the website goes away your bookmark will still have the content stuff like that
anyway people can check that out it's pretty cool i'll have to check it out what i really want is a
bookmark manager that like automatically deletes junk i haven't visited in like a year yeah exactly
you don't seem interested in this anymore you know i i before i imported all my bookmarks into it i had to
do ideally like half of my bookmarks because they were they were bad they were old and duplicates and weird
all right how about a little bit of drama i don't want to talk too much about this but i think it's
worth putting out there you can look into it and make from what it uh what what for me well there's an
incident where uh one of the core developers was suspended given a three-month uh suspension or something like
that and i'm sure a lot of people have heard about this but then there's a follow-up or gita van rossom
posted something referring to that person not even by name and their post was removed for violating the guidelines
for mentioning that and i i don't know this is i feel like this should be
something people are aware of that this kind of stuff is going on uh but i don't know enough about it to
take a side or have a strong opinion but it seems important
um so well okay uh just to to make sure that we're aware that the the post that they're talking about
here did get put back okay interesting it got put on the post got put on timeout interesting okay
all right anyway people can check it out it's linked there um
nearly final call for the coding in the castle in italy we put up a 500 last minute special so
you still got uh some seats left and i'd love to see you there and talk python for six days and
enjoy italy together so uh hopefully people can make that i'll put that in the links as well
and that's all i got brian okay well i want to show you that so the uh the this is the it was a rake
choice voting thing and and guido said something um and he referred to the banned person and for some
reason that got hidden for a while and people are like why would you hide that but it's not hidden
anymore so yeah i'll just read the whole post i don't know much about voting systems but i know
someone who does unfortunately he's currently banned maybe we can wait until his three-month
ban expires and ask him for advice it doesn't seem that controversial to me no but anyway yeah
anyway you know it's not funny though is it it's not very funny it's not well we need something funny
exactly exactly well do you know i know you do some c programming c's pretty funny right
yeah yeah so this i believe this is a was sidebar from a rust a rust book and the title is c will
watch in silence c is a watching you and i can't unsee this image and so on side note other programming
languages hold on you might say other programming languages don't require me to think about lifetimes
why does rust make it so complicated the c programming language will happily let you access memory
has been freed leading to undefined behavior it'll watch in silence as you walk off the edge of a cliff
he will watch you do you feel when is c watched you have you is it watched you see you do a lot of c
yeah yeah right i write a lot of c well do you feel like it watches you no
i don't know that's the joke i got yeah it's an entire tool belt and you can shoot yourself in the
foot with it if you want but yeah no i mean it's a fair point the book is making but it's
watch you in silence as you walk off the edge okay i got another funny thing um that that sort of a
comment from uh marco says um if if i recall correctly in 2022 none was the most second most popular testing
framework uh cry emoji well i expanded the list and none is still 36 it is still the
the second most popular i love that they hit it it was like we're just going to put under the show more
tab 36 of the answer none yikes so in fact it's nearly beating all other true test frameworks i think it is maybe
all of the true test frameworks other than py tests combined yeah well because mock and and doc tests or
hypothesis and stuff don't yeah don't combine in that way i guess
yeah none 36 maybe that's the joke maybe that's the joke the joke is the software you write without tests
exactly it will watch you walk off the edge of a cliff silently yeah
so anyway um fun uh day today talking with you about python and as always as a reminder next week it
will be monday for everybody so but we hope hopefully that's normal hopefully hopefully we'll see what the
holidays do to us see you later yeah all right bye
Okay.